When Kanye West shows up for breakfast in the central cabin at the 
ranch he recently bought near Cody, Wyoming, I ask how he’s doing. 
“Not good,” he says, turning to look at me. Not good? How come? 
“Because,” he says, “Kobe was one of my best friends.”

Of course. It’s the morning of January 29—72 hours after Bryant’s 
shocking death. Somehow, in my head, being out here under the 
limitless unfamiliar sky and rocky alien tundra has made the already 
unimaginable Kobe tragedy seem even less real. Still, it was a 
thoughtless question. I have known West since 2003 and have stayed 
in intermittent contact with him over the years, but it feels 
like an inauspicious start to what will become an intense series 
of experiences and conversations across five weeks and three countries.

Image may contain Human Person Sunglasses Accessories Accessory Wheel Machine Clothing Apparel and Vehicle
Kanye West covers the May 2020 issue of GQ. Click here to subscribe to GQ. 
Jacket, $3,095, by Dunhill / His own T-shirt, by Yeezy / Jeans, $198, 
by Denim Tears x Levi’s / His own sunglasses, by Oliver Peoples / 
His own watch, by Ikepod / His own rings, by Cartier

The property—formerly Monster Lake Ranch, now rechristened West Lake Ranch—actually 
has two lakes across its nearly 4,000-acre expanse. The primary fishing lake has 
brown trout, brook trout, cutthroat trout, tiger trout, and rainbow trout. 
There are caves at the back of the property that have pictographs scrawled on 
the walls by indigenous tribespeople. This time of year, hundreds of antelope, 
mule deer, and a few elk appear on the property. The ranch is also home to 
colts and geldings, 160 cows, and approximately 700 sheep.

In its current state, the ranch appears pretty much the same as it did in 
October, when West bought it. There are some humble sleeping cabins clustered 
along the main driveway, two big barns, the eating cabin (with an upstairs 
lounge where West has installed a bare-bones studio as well as a whiteboard 
with “Yeezy Business Development” scrawled across the top), and out across 
the acreage, a couple of little un-winterized camp outposts. In fact, other 
than the name change, the only thing that seems to visibly mark Kanye’s 
new ownership are the vehicles: an army of Ford F-150 Raptor pickups, painted 
an intimidating aftermarket matte black, along with a fleet of 10 imposing 
SHERP ATVs (also matte-blacked-out), a handful of UTVs (matte black), and of 
course Kanye’s matte black tank.

So it isn’t until I get a Raptor tour from a ranch hand that the radical 
nature of what’s in store for West Lake Ranch begins to crystallize. We 
check out the sheep. We drive down by Monster Lake. Then finally we come 
upon what I’ll just call the Big Dig.

At the foot of West Lake Ranch’s grandest feature—a dramatic cliffscape 
that looks like it was created when one massive plate of earth crashed 
spectacularly up against another in some unknowable prehistoric era—is a 
tremendous excavation of terrain about the size of a sports arena. It is 
the ultimate spot for Kanye West to mark a big X and start digging. The 
next morning, while shooting pictures, we will climb up the back side of 
the cliff. “When we went up on the moon rocks and looked down,” Kanye says 
later, “you saw something the size of a spaceship.” Clearly this is not 
Wyoming ranch business as usual. This is the first sign that the strange 
future of this otherwise unassuming tract of land is already under way.